it almost begs belief when looking
through the paintings of Eve tongi that
such perfect technique of dramatic
lighting and shadows cold atmospheres
and such organic looking imagery could
be achieved by an artist that had little
to no formal training in art
whatsoever stepping into a painting by
Eve tongi is akin to traversing the
threshold of a dream ape where
biomorphic shapes morph into impossible
Landscapes bathed in an unsettling yet
strangely alluring light his canvases
imbued with the spirit of surrealism
transport us to the Realms where logic
surrenders to the Fantastical and the
subconscious Reigns
Supreme to analyze Toni's art is to
embark on a voyage of Discovery
navigating through meticulously rendered
yet ambiguous forms each whispering
secrets and sparking the
imagination in this video we will delve
into the captivating world of some of
tongi strangest paintings dissecting
their unique visual language and
exploring the artistic influences that
shape them we will journey through
recurring themes in his work such as the
interplay between vastness and intimacy
the unsettling beauty of Decay and the
enigmatic presence of Shadows we will
Auto examine tongi relationship with the
surrealist movement analyzing how his
individual voice resonated with the
collective
subconscious don't forget to subscribe
and hit the notification Bell to see
more videos from me on the weird and
wonderful side of art welcome to another
video everyone and prepared to be
bewildered intrigued and perhaps even
challenged as we navigate through the
jarring paintings of Eve
tongi
born on the 5th of January 1900 in Paris
Eve Toni's life like his paintings
unfolded in a series of dramatic forms
tragedy would strike him and his family
from an early age with his father dying
in 1908 and his brother being killed
during the first world war as as he Grew
Older he gravitated towards the sea
spending time on Merchant ships and
later finding inspiration in its
vastness and mystery in 1920 he was
conscripted into the French army in
Tunis where he met the poet Shak PR who
was apparently amused by Toni's
eccentric and strange habits from
chewing his socks to eating live spiders
the latter became a party trick that he
would often repeat
but it was a vibrant partisan art scene
during this decade that truly began to
shift him towards the art World a
life-changing encounter with the georgo
Deo painting in
1923 sparked Toni's artistic Journey
drawn to the surrealist movement's
exploration of a subconscious and the
irrational he quickly found himself
surrounded by the likes of Andre Breton
and reney
mcgr despite having no formal training t
I's Unique Style blossomed characterized
by meticulously rendered biomorphic
shapes Barren Landscapes bathed in
ethereal light and a sense of suspended
animation his paintings with titles like
indefinite divisibility for example or
through Birds through fire but not
through glass invited viewers to abandon
conventional logic and delve into
Dreamscapes where Familiar objects
morphed into strange suggestive
forms he became a key figure in
surrealism exhibiting extensively
gaining critical Acclaim for his
dreamlike
Visions in
1939 Love Led tongi across the Atlantic
where he met and married fellow artist
case Sage who shared a relatively
similar style to tongi and who I think
May in fact also be worth exploring on
his channel
someday settling in Connecticut tongi
continue to paint prolifically finding
inspiration in the American landscape
while retaining his distinct European
influence style during World War II he
became a vocal advocate for exiled
artists and participated in exhibitions
alongside other European surrealists who
sought refuge in the United
States Toni's influence extended beyond
the art World inspiring filmmakers like
Alfred Hitchcock and other famous
surrealists like Salvador Dar despite
his growing International recognition
Toni remained humble and dedicated to
his craft sadly he passed away in
1955 after suffering a fatal stroke
leaving behind a rich Legacy of
paintings that continue to Captivate and
Inspire viewers
today
the first painting we'll be looking at
today is titled mama papa is wounded
completed in
1927 one of Toni's earliest
masterpieces this work invites both
admiration and perplexity his enigmatic
landscape littered with seemingly
unrelated objects demands more than a
fleeting glance so let's try looking
deeper and unveil the layers of of
meaning hidden within it dominating the
canvas is a vast empty space bathed in
an eerie grayish violet light this
unearthly illumination reminiscent of
Dio's work casts long ominous Shadows
contributing to an overall sense of
desolation and
unease the barren desert-like terrain
evokes a post-apocalyptic Wasteland a
world stripped of comfort and
familiarity
scattered across a desolate landscape
are several curious objects seemingly
defying conventional logic a looming
cactus-like form Tethered to a webike
structure appears neither fully free or
imprisoned what appear to be what could
only be described as beans or Pebbles
are scattered in different locations in
the landscape casting dramatic Shadows
onto the ground a tall trunk or stalk of
a plant covered in spikes appears on the
right with an ominous dark black mass
behind it which looks like smoke or a
dark
raincloud there is also what looks like
the shape of a torso that lies
underneath it lying
abandoned on the trunk of spikes is also
a subtle sight of a green string wrapped
around it giving off the impression of a
snake winding itself around a
branch in the distance there is a
strange pale pole that winds and bends
and seems to be disintegrating into the
wind next to it almost appears like the
shape of a ghost emerging from the
ground with two dark Bey
eyes these disconnected elements
contribute to the painting's Dreamlight
quality further blurring the lines
between reality and the
imagination adding to the Enigma is the
evocative title mama papa is wounded
does it reference an actual event a
primal fear or perhaps a collective
trauma of post-war
Society given its open-ended nature the
painting invites diverse
interpretations due to what we already
know of his beloved Fallen brother some
see it as a reflection of the anxiety
and violence that followed World War I
whilst others perceive a Freudian
exploration of relationships and
subconscious
desires Accord according to one Theory I
came across the yellow figure can be
interpreted as the papa the cactus as
the mama and the amorphous mass as a
child a family fractured and vulnerable
in the face of an unknown
threat though personally I see it
slightly differently I see the ominous
dark Mass emerging from the right to be
the threat itself whilst the landscape
is creeping in on to be a plateau of the
mind and the difference scattered
objects to be a series of different
emotions such as hopelessness loneliness
and vulnerability or the feeling of
being trapped which could be emphasized
by the cactus that appears to be tied
down ultimately this painting transcends
a singular interpretation its power lies
in its ability to evoke emotions and
generate personal
narratives the desolate landscape serves
as a canvas for our own an anxieties and
fears inviting us to confront the
fragility of existence and the potential
for pain within even the most basic
human
relationships I should also point out by
the way that this analysis is just one
possible interpretation of the painting
The Beauty of art like this lies in its
subjectivity and each viewer may find
their own unique meaning within its
enigmatic depths and that's actually
something I'd love to hear from you if
you have another interpretation or
notice something I may have missed so
please let me know in the comments
below this next work called Noya iner
painted in 1929 stands as another prime
example of Toni's early surrealist style
while the title again offers little to
no explanation the painting itself with
the minimal and dark imagery it contains
radiates a really strong Aura of mystery
and Intrigue that's very much worth
exploring the canvas is dominated by
Inky Blackness creating a sense of
forboding
vastness against this void four
biomorphic forms float Defying Gravity
and defying
identification are they organic growths
techn logical relics or products of a
subconscious the ambiguity fuels the
viewer's
imagination and as for the cental motif
a wispy pale structure occupies the
space reminiscent of a ghost or strands
of
smoke light seems to emanate from
nowhere sharply highlighting the
forms this play of light reinforces the
dreamlike quality and creates a sense of
depth within the flat canvas a common
interpretation you may come across for
this piece surrounds Toni's frequent
goal to tap the unconscious mind and
create dreamlike imagery Noya indaver
embodies this perfectly offering a
visual representation of subconscious
thoughts and desires unburdened by Logic
or
Reason notably KL young a leading
psychologist interested in surrealism
purchased the painting in 1929 during a
time when Eve tongi was practically
unknown to the art world he personally
saw it as reflecting human Detachment
and bleakness potentially influenced by
the anxieties of the inter War
period young kept it in his study where
it influenced and maybe even helped
Inspire his theory of a collective
unconsciousness in
1958 of course tongi himself ultimately
left his Works open to interpretation
stating that he aimed to voke emotions
rather than convey specific messages the
viewer is lured in to project their own
experiences and feelings onto the canvas
finding personal meaning within the
ambiguity in terms of technique tongi
meticulously rendered the forms with
smooth almost photorealistic Precision
heightening the contrast with their
uncanny
nature this painting stands out as more
focused on biomorphic forms and
dreamlike Landscape
though as we see shortly his later works
explored more mechanical and
Architectural
elements Noya IND deference serves as a
powerful and enigmatic work capturing
the essence of his creativity and even
his most primitive years it haunting
imagery open-ended meaning and
connection to the subconscious mind
continues to invoke and Inspire it's a
real Testament to Toni's ability to
translate the dream world into a
captivating visual
experience indefinite divisibility
completed in
1942 plunges us into a realm where
recognizable objects morph into strange
forms and the familiar landscape
devolves into the unknown here tongi
paint means not only to depict reality
but to again evoke our emotions and
ignite the viewer's imagination without
explanation tongi famously painted
without any real planning or forethought
as he explained himself quote the
painting develops before my eyes
unfolding its surprises as it
progresses end
quote the composition unfolds like a
desolate Beach at Twilight Sandy
expanses stretch towards a hazy Horizon
immersed in a skylight background while
strange biomorphic shapes dominate the
foreground elongated phallic structures
resemble petrified bones or eroded
Cliffs casting long menacing
Shadows these ambiguous objects defy
categorization existing somewhere
between the organic and the mechanical
the natural and the
artificial the scene is is bathed in an
unsettling light a warm glow emanates
from our right highlighting the textures
and Contours of the forms yet this light
also creates dark contrasts emphasizing
the shadows and contributing to the
painting's Eerie
atmosphere is it Dawn breaking or dusk
settling the ambiguity adds to the sense
of mystery and fluidity of
time tongi weaves familiar objects into
the seen adding a layer of playful in
congruity such as propeller blades bowls
of water scattered across the landscape
and a rusty clamp that sits precariously
on top of a
structure these everyday items stripped
of their original contexts become their
own characters in this Dreamscape their
presence invites viewers to create their
own narratives and to decipher hidden
meanings within the painting the title
indefinite divisibility hints at The
painting's Core theme the scene seems
endlessly divisible each detail capable
of further interpretation and each
object could either be attached or
infused in some way or simply as one
with each other eliminating a sense of
Duality the organic forms appear porous
suggesting they could fragment further
revealing new depths and
complexities this endless divis
offers opportunities where boundaries
are fluid and meaning is
multi-layered according to a wonderfully
indepth analysis of his piece on
theartstory.org there are many
interpretations we can take into account
for example Lucien Freud when viewing
his painting noted the heightened
anxiety created by his use of depaso
meaning the state of disorientation
experienced in dreams was a form of
psychosis delusions and
Illusions as for tongi it was a source
of power it's key to remember that many
of the most successful surrealists
celebrated Madness as both an
inspiration and
Liberation Andre Breton said once that
in dreams you could kill fly faster love
to your heart's content interestingly in
1950 the psychological Institute of
Vienna displayed Toni's paintings beside
those of schiz frenic patients to see if
a public could distinguish between the
two as it turns out they could not and
this result was one that delighted the
surrealists Breton believed that one day
Toni's images quote will be made clear
with a language that is not yet
understood but which people are soon
going to read which they are going to
talk and which they are going to
perceive is best adapted to the new
changes end quote
indefinite divisibility is more than
just a painting is an invitation to
explore the impossible and the Realms of
boundlessness tongi masterfully utilizes
light Shadow and ambiguous forms to
create an unsettling yet captivating
atmosphere as surreal art very well
should do this work continues to
challenge viewers to question their
perceptions and delve into the depths of
their own mind
now let's take a look at what could
fairly be considered as one of Eve
Toni's most famous works in his 1943
painting titled through Birds through
fire but not through
glass the painting features strange
organic shapes reminiscent of Bones
rocks and melted wax these forms defy
categorization once again and create a
sense of unease and wonder the fiery
Reds and oranges beautifully clash with
the icy blues and Grays creating a
tension that reflects the duality of the
title although again the source of light
is unclear the contrasting light and
shadow it creates add unsettling depth
and mystery to the scene stones and
wheel spokes defy gravity floating in
the air like impossible Dreams a
tower-like formation composed of balloon
shapes giving off the impression of an
enigmatic Monument made of molten metal
poured into ice cold water the lack of
human figures emphasizes the isolation
and vastness of a landscape and of
course the title hints at multiple
interpretations perhaps the title
suggests that freedom and transformation
require facing danger but fragility
poses a limit maybe it implies that
inspiration interpreted as fire and
communication interpreted as birds can
transcend limitations interpreted as
glass but require considerable effort
the title could be Toni's personal
reflection on overcoming challenges in
his efforts to explore the subconscious
Andre Breton stated that tongi quote
condensed a few pure elements of matter
meeting together and glowing suddenly
like particles of dust dancing in a
Sunbeam end
quote when keeping what Breton said into
consideration when viewing this piece it
truly heightens the concept of how the
individual self and the external world
are in a constant state of
flux through Birds through fire but not
through glass is considered a
masterpiece in its own right his
captivating imagery and title challenges
our perception of reality showing
bluntly how the inner and outer worlds
are constantly at odds with each other
reminding us that there is certainly a
physical world outside our minds but how
it truly definitively appears can never
really be determined only the mind of
the individual itself can
decide
Eve Toni's Rose of the Four Winds
painted in 1950 is a complex and
evocative work that embodies the
characteristics of his latest style
while offering a Fantastical landscape
it departs from the Vivid colors and
dreamlike softness of his earlier Works
presenting a more unsettling and
fragmented scene and consisting of a
more saturated color
palette the dominant feature is a
towering structure on the left
reminiscent of a Gothic Cathedral yet
composed of a halfhazard assemblage of
spiky objects bones and mineral
formations like a futuristic place of
worship this unsettling Fusion of
organic and inorganic materials creates
a sense of instability as if despite its
dominating presence over a surrounding
chaos below it's still delicate able to
succumb at any given
moment the ground is littered with
Jagged debris resembling the rubble of a
destroyed City the Steely gray and pink
sky adds to the apocalyptic atmosphere
evoking feelings of alienation and
desolation though this bleakness
contrasts with the title Rose hinting a
potential Beauty Beyond the immediate
despair the scene is bathed in an
ominous Cold Light and accentuates for
Sharp edges and
textures this harsh illumination is
heightened and emphasizes the stark
contrast between the Towering structure
and the barren
landscape Shadow seems to play a pivotal
role creating pockets of mystery and
hiding potential Secrets within the
composition
several interpretations of row of Four
Winds exist out there considering that
this was painted shortly after World War
II the work might reflect the artist's
anxieties about the war and the
destruction The Bleak landcape and
fractured Tower could symbolize the
devastation left behind by the
conflict the JX position of the imposing
Tower and the chaotic landscape may
represent the struggle between order and
disorder control and
Freedom the title of rose of the Four
Winds could symbolize a force of nature
both destructive and
lifegiving finally I'd like us to take a
look at Toni's very last painting
completed just months before his death
titled multiplication of the arcs
completed in
1954 this work is not only beautiful but
also a complex tapestry woven with
symbolic
undertones to fully appreciate it let's
delve into its
depths dominated by a vast foreground
and a looming stormy sky the painting
evokes a sense of
isolation curiously instead of Toni's
usual towering structures that were
prevalent in a lot of his most famous
works here we see fragmented biomorphic
shapes resembling bones Pebbles and
organic remains scattered across the
ground with no dominating structure in
sight traditionally interpreted as
symbols of authority the absence of such
a structure suggests Decay fragility and
possibly
mortality considering the timing of a
painting it adds unsettling
foreshadowing of what awaited the
artist earthy Browns yellows and Grays
create a melancolic atmosphere while
subtle shades of blue offer a glimmer of
hope in the
distance often representing subconscious
desires and fears in surrealism here
they hint at a connection to the natural
world and its
impermanence the title refers to the
repeated motifs suggesting an abundance
of Poss possibilities even in the
seemingly lifeless and still
landscape the play of light and Shadow
creates a sense of mystery and depth
inviting a viewer to endlessly explore
the scene
further in terms of this introspective
landscape this could be seen as tongi
acknowledging both the finitude of life
and the potential for Renewal within
natural
cycles once again the desolate landscape
might reflect concerns about the war to
destruction and the fragility of human
civilization but despite its melancholic
undertones the open landscape and subtle
light offer a sense of openness and
continuity a sense of an ending to which
is also endless nonetheless a horizon
hidden from view an exponential Journey
with infinite
potential but to be honest with you I
feel almost inappropriate for analyzing
art like this at times because I really
want to emphasize that point of infinite
potential which is truly the heart and
soul of Toni's work in reality there
really are no right or wrong answers
tongi embraced the automatic painting
and drawing technique letting his hand
guide the brush allowing for spontaneous
unconscious expression so I could
interpret his work till the cows come
home but will it get us any closer to a
definitive answer absolutely not that's
the beauty of it
like I mentioned in the first painting
there may be some details I missed or
instances where I've just been
overthinking and your interpretations no
matter how different they are to mine
all the other theories I've uncovered
from my research for these paintings
should be considered just as valid just
because I or someone far better trained
in art than me or even someone who new
tongi personally can give an
interpretation we shouldn't just take it
at face value
a work of art should be thoroughly
investigated by the individual and
interpretations of others should be
scrutinized so that one may come to
their own understanding it's better to
think of this video as just a seed that
needs watering a finger pointing the way
to someone's own experience of Toni's
work rather than just taking them
straight there Eve tongi not only
unconsciously expressed himself in his
art a technique that would be adopted by
the likes of Jackson Pollock and Mark
Rothco but he also executed his
paintings with such striking detail in
realism I don't think even Salvador Dar
accomplished such a skill in his art in
fact it's well documented that darly
owes a lot of his style to tongi at one
point Dary once told Toni's niece Agnes
quote I pinched everything from your
uncle Eve which to me is what really
makes him stand out in the world of
surrealism this his concepts are
brimming with imagery yet also
strikingly minimal simple yet so vast
and complexity but where Dar was notably
intimidated by space tongi seemed to
embrace it as something intimate and
eternal consoling and
inevitable without a doubt Eve tongi was
one of a kind with a not just a
surrealist movement but within the art
World in general one of very few select
artist to successfully create something
to put on display something for us to
perceive but also to deliberately make
us look back inside ourselves towards a
world that we are often too anxious to
look directly at the environment of our
own
minds thank you for watching this video
I hope this was an interesting Journey
for you and inspired you to delve deeper
into the paintings of Eve tongi don't
forget to leave your interpretations
Below in the comments as well I'd love
to hear your
thoughts before I go I want to wrap up
this video with artist corner where I
get to share some artwork sent to me by
one of my viewers and today's featured
bonus artist is mate Cola a freelance
illustrator from
Slovakia matate has been doing art
seriously for around 6 years always
having an instinctual desire to create
and has developed an amazingly real
style of fantasy art created via both
traditional and digital drawing he tells
me that most of his themes stem from
observing the world around him observing
through the lens of the dreamlike
imagery you see here now and creating
symbols out of them he gives many
interesting backstories behind his
pieces for example his artwork instar
was inspired from wanting to capture a
feeling of growing and
metamorphosis a sort of Jubilation and
at the same time a lamentation for the
past self the empress piece he explains
was basically inspired from a sort of
horror of Womanhood bition was based on
a feeling of being trapped in an endless
self-judging self-punishing
cycle he also tells me that besides
other artists he is most influenced by
books video games and music with artists
such as Bosch rembrand Edvard Mon redus
varo and B zinski being some of his
favorites I really admire the rich
imagination that mate has every work of
his seems more strange than the last
with an incredibly dark and looming
threat to them A Perfect Blend of beauty
and horror that I personally love and of
course I think it's well worth exploring
be sure to see more of his work on his
website and on his Instagram page look
up the links you see here on screen or
click the links Below in the description
please send me an email to Blind dweller
gmail.com or reach out to me on
Instagram if you too have some art you'd
like to share with me finally as always
a massive thank you to all of my patrons
and channel members here's a shout out
to all of my top tier
donators Port perea miles Z grape vadiv
Tyler Butler Harley Raven Eric Lam
marker Dave MC molil the new on goam 24
eok Ken B Lee Flowers Calvin Kai
aiser Carol H and Charlie San cheesy
that's me done for today see you in the
next one soon keep being creative and
bye for
now